Employee Information - Management will maintain procedures for identifying and documenting training needs for personnel and establish a training curriculum for each level of the organization structure. Specific training on security awareness will include information on phishing, handling suspicious emails, and secure password creation. Employees who are closely working with significant software applications will need specialized discussion and training that includes system hardening approaches, anti-virus software, security audits, penetration testing, and log review.

Customer Information - Services delivered by the information services function will be assessed to identify deficiencies in service levels and establish improvement procedures.

Operational Processes - Leaders should properly communicate organizational policies and should be sure that all policies are understood and accepted. The communication process is the result of an effective communication plan.  A process will be established to develop structured methods to coordinate and deliver information between headquarters, other locations, and subsidiaries.

Policies and Standards - Senior management is responsible for the implementation of specific procedures for controlling consultant and contracted staff activity to assure the protection of the business information assets. Documentation of changes throughout the relevant procedures where system changes are implemented will be thoroughly performed.

Applications Assets - Management will define procedures for software installation, maintenance, change controls, and utility monitoring so that they do not threaten the current system. Senior management will monitor and test all aspects of cybersecurity, maintaining log records, and documenting corrective actions at a reasonable frequency. Once the testing standards are established, unit testing, application testing, integration testing, system testing, and/or stress testing should be performed.

Data Storage - IT managers will establish and maintain procedures (including retention schedules) for data storage that considers retrieval, integrity, and cost-effectiveness requirements. The strategies required for backing up and restoring data will be defined to ensure it includes business requirements, testing and documentation of the recovery plan, verification of usability of backups, and includes the proper storage recommendations.

Hardware Devices - To prevent disruptions in business operations, IT managers will maintain a routine and periodic hardware maintenance schedule along with preventative maintenance activities.
